README.md, before:

# Foundations of Computational Social Systems
[David Garcia](http://dgarcia.eu), 2022

Welcome to the online materials for Foundations of Computational Social Systems.

The widespread use of information and communication technologies in our digital society motivates the study of Computational Social Systems, where humans and machines interact in a way that generates new phenomena and data. These new phenomena require an interdisciplinary approach that builds on digital trace data to study Computational Social Systems at global scales, very high frequencies, and unprecedented levels of depth and resolution.

This course focuses on the fundamentals of a computational approach to study new social systems in our digital society. Students in this course learn how to plan, execute, and interpret complete Data Science projects to address questions about human behavior and emergent phenomena in Computational Social Systems. After this course, students will know how to gather data from social media, search trends, and other online and offline sources, how to process and store that data, and how to combine, analyze, and visualize data to address specific questions. The course makes a special emphasis in interpretation and critique of Data Science in the Social Sciences, aiming at an interdisciplinary approach rooted on the understanding of the power and limitations of online technologies for social interaction.

## Who am I?

I am the Professor for Computational Behavioral and Social Sciences the Graz University of Technology, where I lead the [Computational Social Science Lab](http://www.csslab.at). I am also group leader at the Medical University of Vienna and at the Complexity Science Hub Vienna. My background is Computer Science but I worked my whole career with psychologists, sociologists and physicists to learn new ways to understand human behavior. I got my PhD from ETH Zurich in 2012 and a habilitation in 2018, starting to work as full professor TU Graz in 2020. To learn more about my research, check my [publications](https://dgarcia.eu/full-publication-list/). I teach this course in collaboration with Dr. Petar Jerčić, a postdoctoral researcher in the Computational Social Science Lab, and Moritz Erlacher, the student tutor for the course. Several people have contributed to the materials of this course over time, especially [Dr. Jana Lasser](https://janalasser.at/) and [Dr. Max Pellert](https://mpellert.at/).

## Place and time

The lectures of this course take place as a block course during the first weeks of the semester. The schedule is the following:

- Day 1 - 6.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (HS i3)
- Day 2 - 7.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (HS L)
- Day 3 - 11.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)
- Day 4 - 13.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)
- Day 5 - 14.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (online)

Exercise sessions take place over the semester. You can participate in one of two groups:
- Group A, Tuesdays 13:00-14:00 (HS II)
- Group B, Thursdays 14:15-15:15 (HS i3)

## Course Contents

The lectures for the course are organized in five days with two sessions each, making a total of 10. The block course takes place on the first two weeks of the semester. Recordings of all sessions will be available on TUbe afterwards.

### Day 1 - 6.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (HS i3)

1. **Introduction to Computational Social Systems**  
1.1. Course administration and information -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/011_CourseIntroduction/Slides/CourseIntroduction_Slides.html)  
1.2. [Computational Social Systems](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/012_ComputationalSocialSystems/ComputationalSocialSystems) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/012_ComputationalSocialSystems/Slides/ComputationalSocialSystems_Slides.html)  
1.3. [Social Data Science](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/013_SocialDataScience/SocialDataScience) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/013_SocialDataScience/Slides/Introduction_Slides.html)    

2. **Search Behavior**  
2.1. [Measuring temporal orientation with Google Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/021_TemporalOrientation/TemporalOrientationGtrends.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/021_TemporalOrientation/Slides/TemporalOrientationGtrends_Slides.html)     
2.2. [The parable of Google Flu Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/022_GoogleFluTrends/GoogleFluTrends) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/022_GoogleFluTrends/Slides/GoogleFluTrends_Slides.html)  
2.3. [Measuring correlation](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/023_Correlation/MeasuringCorrelation.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/023_Correlation/Slides/MeasuringCorrelation_Slides.html)   

### Day 2 - 7.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (HS L)

3. **Social Trends**  
3.1. [The Simmel Effect and Online Social Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/031_SimmelEffect/SimmelEffect.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/031_SimmelEffect/Slides/SimmelEffect_Slides.html)  
3.2. [Old Big Data: Baby name trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/032_BabyNameTrends/BabyNameTrends.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/032_BabyNameTrends/Slides/BabyNameTrends_Slides.html)  
3.3. [Linear regression](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/033_LinearRegression/LinearRegression.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/033_LinearRegression/Slides/LinearRegression_Slides.html)

4. **Social Impact**  
4.1. [Social Impact Theory](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/041_SocialImpactTheory/SIT.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/041_SocialImpactTheory/Slides/SIT_Slides.html)   
4.2. [Online Social Influence](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/042_OnlineInfluence/OnlineInfluence.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/042_OnlineInfluence/Slides/OnlineInfluence_Slides.html)  
4.3. [Bootstrapping](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/043_Bootstrapping/Bootstrapping.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/043_Bootstrapping/Slides/Bootstrapping_Slides.html)

### Day 3 - 11.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)

5. **Social Media Text Analysis**  
5.1. [Measuring emotions](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/051_MeasuringEmotions/Emotions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/051_MeasuringEmotions/Slides/Emotions_Slides.html)  
5.2. [Unsupervised sentiment analysis](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/052_UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis/UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/052_UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis/Slides/UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis_Slides.html)    
5.3. [Emotions in pagers after 9/11](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/053_PagerEmotions/PagerEmotions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/053_PagerEmotions/Slides/PagerEmotions_Slides.html)    


6. **Supervised Sentiment Analysis**  
6.1. [The semantic differential](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/061_SemanticDifferential/SemanticDifferential.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/061_SemanticDifferential/Slides/SemanticDifferential_Slides.html)  
6.2. [Supervised sentiment analysis](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/062_SupervisedSentimentAnalysis/SupervisedSentimentAnalysis.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/062_SupervisedSentimentAnalysis/Slides/SupervisedSentimentAnalysis_Slides.html)  
6.3. Sentiment analysis applications -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/063_SentimentAnalysisApplications/Slides/SentimentApplications_Slides.html)  

### Day 4 - 13.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)

7. **Social network analysis**   
7.1. [Introduction to social networks](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/071_SNAIntro/SNAIntro.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/071_SNAIntro/Slides/SNAIntro_Slides.html)  
7.2. [Centrality and importance](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/072_Centrality/Centrality.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/072_Centrality/Slides/Centrality_Slides.html)  
7.3. [The Friendship paradox](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/073_FriendshipParadox/FriendshipParadox.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/073_FriendshipParadox/Slides/FriendshipParadox_Slides.html)    

8. **Social network structures**   
8.1. [Structural holes](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/081_StructuralHoles/StructuralHoles.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/081_StructuralHoles/Slides/StructuralHoles_Slides.html)    
8.2. [Assortativity](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/082_Assortativity/Assortativity.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/082_Assortativity/Slides/Assortativity_Slides.html)   
8.3. [Permutation tests](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/083_PermutationTests/PermutationTests.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/083_PermutationTests/Slides/PermutationTests_Slides.html)    

### Day 5 - 14.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (online)

9. **Social network phenomena**  
9.1. [The death of online social networks](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/091_SocialNetworkDeath/SocialNetworkDeath.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/091_SocialNetworkDeath/Slides/SocialNetworkDeath_Slides.html)  
9.2. [Social resilience and coreness centrality](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/092_SocialResilience/SocialResilience.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/092_SocialResilience/Slides/SocialResilience_Slides.html)  
9.3. [Polarization and digital technologies](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/093_Polarization/Polarization.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/093_Polarization/Slides/Polarization_Slides.html)  
9.4. [Misinformation and information disorder](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/094_Misinformation/Misinformation.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/094_Misinformation/Slides/Misinformation_Slides.html)  


10. **Social issues**  
10.1. [Representation issues - The case of Twitter](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/101_TwitterOpinions/TwitterOpinions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/101_TwitterOpinions/Slides/TwitterOpinions_Slides.html)   
10.2. [The ethics of social media research](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/102_Ethics/Ethics.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/102_Ethics/Slides/Ethics_Slides.html)  
10.3. [Privacy in the digital society](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/103_Privacy/Privacy.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/103_Privacy/Slides/Privacy_Slides.html)    

[Project guidance](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md) - [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/Projects_Guidance/ProjectGuidanceSlides.html)  

Exercise sessions take place from the third week. In exercises, you collect your own data and try to answer questions about human behavior and online phenomena. The online materials do not contain the solutions to the exercises, but if you are stuck or want to start from an easier point, in the github folder of the exercise you can find a version of the exercise with hints.

## Exercise sessions calendar

Each group has at least two sessions per exercise. Due to holidays, one group might miss one session for one exercise, but it is always possible for every student to attend any group or even both in the same week. Online support is available in any case over Discord.

01. Intro to Python 1 (18.10 and 20.10)
02. Intro to Python 2 (25.10 and 27.10)
03. Intro to Python 3 (03.11)
04. Exercise 01 Session 1 (8.11 and 10.11)
05. Exercise 01 Session 2 (15.11 and 17.11) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 01: 21.11
06. Exercise 02 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 01 (22.11 and 24.11)
07. Exercise 02 Session 2 (29.11 and 01.12) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 02: 05.12
08. Exercise 03 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 02 (06.12)
09. Exercise 03 Session 2 (13.12 and 15.12) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 03: 09.01
10. Exercise 04 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 03 (10.01 and 12.01)
11. Exercise 04 Session 2 (17.01 and 19.01) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 04: 23.01
12. Project guidance with David and discussion of solution of Exercise 04 (27.01)

## Project guidance sessions, presentation dates, and deadlines

- 16.12, 14:15 - Extra project guidance with David (online)
- 19.12, end of day - **deadline for project registrations** (see the [projects guide](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md) for more information)
- 27.01, 14:15 - Project guidance with David (online)
- 03.02, 14:00 - Project presentations date 1 (online)
- 17.02, end of day - **deadline for submission of final report** for projects presented on date 1.
- 03.03, 14:15 - Project presentations date 2 (online)
- 17.03, end of day - **deadline for submission of final report** for projects presented on date 2.

## Course grading

The assessment for the course is based on the final group research project (max. 4 students). The project grade is a combination of the presentation (50%) and the written report on the project (50%). Extra points (max 20%)  can be achieved by delivering four optional exercise solutions, each one worth 5%. Optional exercises are graded with pass/fail and feedback about solutions will take place during tutorial sessions.

To learn more about how to do the project, check the [**PROJECTS GUIDE.**](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md)

Commit message:

Added information about Python Intro

README.md, after:

# Foundations of Computational Social Systems
[David Garcia](http://dgarcia.eu), 2022

Welcome to the online materials for Foundations of Computational Social Systems.

The widespread use of information and communication technologies in our digital society motivates the study of Computational Social Systems, where humans and machines interact in a way that generates new phenomena and data. These new phenomena require an interdisciplinary approach that builds on digital trace data to study Computational Social Systems at global scales, very high frequencies, and unprecedented levels of depth and resolution.

This course focuses on the fundamentals of a computational approach to study new social systems in our digital society. Students in this course learn how to plan, execute, and interpret complete Data Science projects to address questions about human behavior and emergent phenomena in Computational Social Systems. After this course, students will know how to gather data from social media, search trends, and other online and offline sources, how to process and store that data, and how to combine, analyze, and visualize data to address specific questions. The course makes a special emphasis in interpretation and critique of Data Science in the Social Sciences, aiming at an interdisciplinary approach rooted on the understanding of the power and limitations of online technologies for social interaction.

## Who am I?

I am the Professor for Computational Behavioral and Social Sciences the Graz University of Technology, where I lead the [Computational Social Science Lab](http://www.csslab.at). I am also group leader at the Medical University of Vienna and at the Complexity Science Hub Vienna. My background is Computer Science but I worked my whole career with psychologists, sociologists and physicists to learn new ways to understand human behavior. I got my PhD from ETH Zurich in 2012 and a habilitation in 2018, starting to work as full professor TU Graz in 2020. To learn more about my research, check my [publications](https://dgarcia.eu/full-publication-list/). I teach this course in collaboration with Dr. Petar Jerčić, a postdoctoral researcher in the Computational Social Science Lab, and Moritz Erlacher, the student tutor for the course. Several people have contributed to the materials of this course over time, especially [Dr. Jana Lasser](https://janalasser.at/) and [Dr. Max Pellert](https://mpellert.at/).

## Place and time

The lectures of this course take place as a block course during the first weeks of the semester. The schedule is the following:

- Day 1 - 6.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (HS i3)
- Day 2 - 7.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (HS L)
- Day 3 - 11.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)
- Day 4 - 13.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)
- Day 5 - 14.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (online)

Exercise sessions take place over the semester. You can participate in one of two groups:
- Group A, Tuesdays 13:00-14:00 (HS II)
- Group B, Thursdays 14:15-15:15 (HS i3)

## Course Contents

The lectures for the course are organized in five days with two sessions each, making a total of 10. The block course takes place on the first two weeks of the semester. Recordings of all sessions will be available on TUbe afterwards.

### Day 1 - 6.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (HS i3)

1. **Introduction to Computational Social Systems**  
1.1. Course administration and information -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/011_CourseIntroduction/Slides/CourseIntroduction_Slides.html)  
1.2. [Computational Social Systems](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/012_ComputationalSocialSystems/ComputationalSocialSystems) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/012_ComputationalSocialSystems/Slides/ComputationalSocialSystems_Slides.html)  
1.3. [Social Data Science](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/013_SocialDataScience/SocialDataScience) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/01_Introduction/013_SocialDataScience/Slides/Introduction_Slides.html)    

2. **Search Behavior**  
2.1. [Measuring temporal orientation with Google Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/021_TemporalOrientation/TemporalOrientationGtrends.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/021_TemporalOrientation/Slides/TemporalOrientationGtrends_Slides.html)     
2.2. [The parable of Google Flu Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/022_GoogleFluTrends/GoogleFluTrends) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/022_GoogleFluTrends/Slides/GoogleFluTrends_Slides.html)  
2.3. [Measuring correlation](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/023_Correlation/MeasuringCorrelation.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/02_Search/023_Correlation/Slides/MeasuringCorrelation_Slides.html)   

### Day 2 - 7.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (HS L)

3. **Social Trends**  
3.1. [The Simmel Effect and Online Social Trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/031_SimmelEffect/SimmelEffect.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/031_SimmelEffect/Slides/SimmelEffect_Slides.html)  
3.2. [Old Big Data: Baby name trends](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/032_BabyNameTrends/BabyNameTrends.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/032_BabyNameTrends/Slides/BabyNameTrends_Slides.html)  
3.3. [Linear regression](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/033_LinearRegression/LinearRegression.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/03_SocialTrends/033_LinearRegression/Slides/LinearRegression_Slides.html)

4. **Social Impact**  
4.1. [Social Impact Theory](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/041_SocialImpactTheory/SIT.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/041_SocialImpactTheory/Slides/SIT_Slides.html)   
4.2. [Online Social Influence](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/042_OnlineInfluence/OnlineInfluence.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/042_OnlineInfluence/Slides/OnlineInfluence_Slides.html)  
4.3. [Bootstrapping](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/043_Bootstrapping/Bootstrapping.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/04_SocialImpact/043_Bootstrapping/Slides/Bootstrapping_Slides.html)

### Day 3 - 11.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)

5. **Social Media Text Analysis**  
5.1. [Measuring emotions](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/051_MeasuringEmotions/Emotions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/051_MeasuringEmotions/Slides/Emotions_Slides.html)  
5.2. [Unsupervised sentiment analysis](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/052_UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis/UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/052_UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis/Slides/UnsupervisedSentimentAnalysis_Slides.html)    
5.3. [Emotions in pagers after 9/11](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/053_PagerEmotions/PagerEmotions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/05_TextAnalysis/053_PagerEmotions/Slides/PagerEmotions_Slides.html)    


6. **Supervised Sentiment Analysis**  
6.1. [The semantic differential](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/061_SemanticDifferential/SemanticDifferential.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/061_SemanticDifferential/Slides/SemanticDifferential_Slides.html)  
6.2. [Supervised sentiment analysis](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/062_SupervisedSentimentAnalysis/SupervisedSentimentAnalysis.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/062_SupervisedSentimentAnalysis/Slides/SupervisedSentimentAnalysis_Slides.html)  
6.3. Sentiment analysis applications -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/06_SentimentAnalysis/063_SentimentAnalysisApplications/Slides/SentimentApplications_Slides.html)  

### Day 4 - 13.10.2022 15:15-18:45 (online)

7. **Social network analysis**   
7.1. [Introduction to social networks](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/071_SNAIntro/SNAIntro.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/071_SNAIntro/Slides/SNAIntro_Slides.html)  
7.2. [Centrality and importance](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/072_Centrality/Centrality.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/072_Centrality/Slides/Centrality_Slides.html)  
7.3. [The Friendship paradox](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/073_FriendshipParadox/FriendshipParadox.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/07_SNA/073_FriendshipParadox/Slides/FriendshipParadox_Slides.html)    

8. **Social network structures**   
8.1. [Structural holes](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/081_StructuralHoles/StructuralHoles.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/081_StructuralHoles/Slides/StructuralHoles_Slides.html)    
8.2. [Assortativity](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/082_Assortativity/Assortativity.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/082_Assortativity/Slides/Assortativity_Slides.html)   
8.3. [Permutation tests](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/083_PermutationTests/PermutationTests.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/08_SocialNetworkStructures/083_PermutationTests/Slides/PermutationTests_Slides.html)    

### Day 5 - 14.10.2022 13:15-16:45 (online)

9. **Social network phenomena**  
9.1. [The death of online social networks](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/091_SocialNetworkDeath/SocialNetworkDeath.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/091_SocialNetworkDeath/Slides/SocialNetworkDeath_Slides.html)  
9.2. [Social resilience and coreness centrality](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/092_SocialResilience/SocialResilience.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/092_SocialResilience/Slides/SocialResilience_Slides.html)  
9.3. [Polarization and digital technologies](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/093_Polarization/Polarization.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/093_Polarization/Slides/Polarization_Slides.html)  
9.4. [Misinformation and information disorder](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/094_Misinformation/Misinformation.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/09_SNAPhenomena/094_Misinformation/Slides/Misinformation_Slides.html)  


10. **Social issues**  
10.1. [Representation issues - The case of Twitter](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/101_TwitterOpinions/TwitterOpinions.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/101_TwitterOpinions/Slides/TwitterOpinions_Slides.html)   
10.2. [The ethics of social media research](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/102_Ethics/Ethics.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/102_Ethics/Slides/Ethics_Slides.html)  
10.3. [Privacy in the digital society](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/103_Privacy/Privacy.html) -- [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/10_SocietalIssues/103_Privacy/Slides/Privacy_Slides.html)    

[Project guidance](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md) - [[Slides]](https://dgarcia-eu.github.io/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/Projects_Guidance/ProjectGuidanceSlides.html)  

Exercise sessions take place from the third week. In exercises, you collect your own data and try to answer questions about human behavior and online phenomena. The online materials do not contain the solutions to the exercises, but if you are stuck or want to start from an easier point, in the github folder of the exercise you can find a version of the exercise with hints.

## Exercise sessions calendar

Each group has at least two sessions per exercise. Due to holidays, one group might miss one session for one exercise, but it is always possible for every student to attend any group or even both in the same week. Online support is available in any case over Discord. More Information about the Python Intro [here](Python_Tutorial/README.md).

01. Intro to Python 1 (18.10 and 20.10)
02. Intro to Python 2 (25.10 and 27.10)
03. Intro to Python 3 (03.11)
04. Exercise 01 Session 1 (8.11 and 10.11)
05. Exercise 01 Session 2 (15.11 and 17.11) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 01: 21.11
06. Exercise 02 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 01 (22.11 and 24.11)
07. Exercise 02 Session 2 (29.11 and 01.12) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 02: 05.12
08. Exercise 03 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 02 (06.12)
09. Exercise 03 Session 2 (13.12 and 15.12) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 03: 09.01
10. Exercise 04 Session 1 and discussion of solution of Exercise 03 (10.01 and 12.01)
11. Exercise 04 Session 2 (17.01 and 19.01) - Deadline to submit solutions of Exercise 04: 23.01
12. Project guidance with David and discussion of solution of Exercise 04 (27.01)

## Project guidance sessions, presentation dates, and deadlines

- 16.12, 14:15 - Extra project guidance with David (online)
- 19.12, end of day - **deadline for project registrations** (see the [projects guide](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md) for more information)
- 27.01, 14:15 - Project guidance with David (online)
- 03.02, 14:00 - Project presentations date 1 (online)
- 17.02, end of day - **deadline for submission of final report** for projects presented on date 1.
- 03.03, 14:15 - Project presentations date 2 (online)
- 17.03, end of day - **deadline for submission of final report** for projects presented on date 2.

## Course grading

The assessment for the course is based on the final group research project (max. 4 students). The project grade is a combination of the presentation (50%) and the written report on the project (50%). Extra points (max 20%)  can be achieved by delivering four optional exercise solutions, each one worth 5%. Optional exercises are graded with pass/fail and feedback about solutions will take place during tutorial sessions.

To learn more about how to do the project, check the [**PROJECTS GUIDE.**](https://github.com/dgarcia-eu/FoundationsOfCSS-TUGraz/blob/master/Projects_Guidance/ProjectsGuide.md)
